♪ Opening Song ♪
[wind blowing]
Oh, you.
Back again, eh, Ginko?
Tama...
[TAMA] And your work?
How's it been going?
Eh... Still the same, I guess.
So how's Tanyu been?
[TAMA] Just like you.
The same. Still writing.
She's resting
at the moment though,
so please keep your voice down.
[TAMA] Are you here
to view the archives again?
[GINKO]
Yes.
[TAMA] Wait here
for a moment, please.
[creaking]
[TAMA] And what would you
like to see today?
[GINKO] Well, I'm caught up
on most of the work
of the past generations, so...
[TAMA] Then you're already at
Miss Tanyu's generation.
I'm impressed. They start
on that shelf there.
[GINKO]
Thank you.
One more thing.
Those cigars of yours.
Give them to me.
I'm not gonna smoke in here.
[TAMA] Sorry, but I can't
take any chances, Ginko.
The archives are priceless.
The scrolls here
are more than just guides
to sealing away mushi.
You haven't forgotten
that now, have you?
No, of course not.
[GINKO] The collected wisdom
of mushi masters,
passed down
through the generations.
Indeed. These archives
are priceless.
All the more so because of
their reason for being here.
[TAMA] Forward: circumstances
regarding the birth of Tanyu,
daughter and fourth-generation
scribe of the Karibusa family,
as recorded by Tama Minai,
mushi master
to the Karibusa family.
[BABY crying]
Are you certain?
Yes. There's no mistaking it.
She has the birthmark.
She is the
fourth-generation scribe.
[TAMA]
Miss Tanyu? Where are you?
[TAMA] Please return
to your room this instant.
[TANYU]
No!
For once I want to play
outside like other kids.
Why is studying how to read
and write all I ever do?
And why does
my leg look so strange
and why won't it move?!
[sobs]
I am sorry, child.
Your life has not been easy.
And these questions of yours
do deserve answers.
You're old enough
to understand now.
Come. I'll tell you everything.
To begin with, that
birthmark on your right leg
is a remnant of a mushi
sealed away inside you.
My family and yours have been
connected for generations.
It was my mushi master
ancestors who sealed
forbidden mushi away
in the body of your ancestor.
[TANYU]
Forbidden?
[TAMA]
Yes.
To understand, we must first
go back to the beginning.
Back then, flora and fauna
lived in harmony with mushi.
Where flora
and fauna flourished,
so too did mushi alongside them.
Where they died off,
the mushi did as well.
Once upon a time, a terrible
catastrophe struck the land,
killing flora, fauna,
and mushi alike.
It was then that
they first appeared:
a type of mushi
never before encountered.
One that attempted to erase
all other forms of life.
What was it like?
There are no records
of its shape.
Nor how it was sealed
in your ancestor's body.
All I know is the story that
my family has passed down.
Your ancestor was pregnant
when my ancestors
sealed the forbidden
mushi inside of her.
She managed to survive,
but there was a side effect:
her body turned
as black as coal.
The mushi continued
to live inside her body
until the very end,
when--sadly--
your ancestor died
giving birth to her child.
Since then,
once in every few generations
of the Karibusa family,
a child is born
with a coal-black birthmark--
a reminder of
the mushi sealed within.
[TANYU] You mean the mushi
are... alive inside of me?
Does that mean that
I'm gonna die, too?!
I will not let that
happen to you, Tanyu!
I promise you that!
You have the power
to put those mushi to sleep.
Not just for
a while but forever.
And I will help you do it.
When you have more fully
mastered the scribe's art,
we will pack up
the collected knowledge
recorded by our ancestors.
We will establish a new archive
and there we will bury
the forbidden mushi forever.
When that is done, your black
birthmark will disappear,
your afflicted leg will heal,
and you'll finally be able
to walk on it at long last.
Three ancestors
before you have gradually
been eradicating those mushi.
You will be the one
to finally free your family
from their curse.
Miss Tanyu,
this is our new home.
[TANYU]
That old dream again. How odd.
[TANYU] And so I began
to learn the process of how
to put the mushi to sleep
under Tama's instruction.
It was a little
surprising at first.
[TAMA] You must
write down everything
I'm about to tell you.
Word for word, note for note.
All of it, Miss Tanyu.
[TANYU] Tama told me
stories about mushi
and her experiences slaying
them as a mushi master.
They seemed like
the stuff of fantasies,
but they were all true.
There were so many stories.
One day she might
regale me with tales
of mushi round-ups,
accompanied by her distinct,
dramatic flair, of course.
And on the next, tell sad
stories by lantern light.
Fascinating stories of faraway
lands and strange people.
However... whenever
I wrote her stories down,
an intense pain
ran through my birthmark.
[TANYU] Tama? Are the
mushi leaving my body?
Is that why it hurts?
That's correct.
Writing down the stories
of how I slew
mushi in the past,
that's what kills the forbidden
ones coursing inside you.
I realize it's painful,
but you must bear it, Tanyu.
[TANYU]
Tama. Because of my family,
your fate was sealed to become
a mushi master, wasn't it?
You could have had a
different life, a happier one.
Instead, you've had
to take care of me.
You must hate me
sometimes because of that.
If I ever had any ill will,
it completely disappeared the
moment I laid eyes on you
the day you were born.
Miss Tanyu, I am grateful
to you and your family.
[TANYU]
Let's continue. Tell me more.
Are you sure, Miss?
[TANYU]
Yes. I'll be fine.
[TANYU] The pain... Tama did
all she could to ease it,
but it was something
I had to learn
how to deal with over time.
Eventually,
Tama exhausted her stories.
So she began to invite other
mushi masters to tell theirs.
And I heard them all.
There was only one sure way
to wipe out the vermin mushi.
I found its natural enemy
in the mountains.
The mushi contained
in this vial.
I released a large number
of them in the area.
Within a month, you could not
find one vermin mushi.
Afterwards, I destroyed
those other mushi as well.
You can't have too many of
their species around, after all.
But not to worry.
They were easy to dispose of.
I knew exactly what to do.
[TANYU] It didn't matter
who was telling the story.
They were all
about one thing: killing.
The pain in my leg
was nothing compared to
the immense pain
I felt in my heart.
This killing was the result
of arrogance toward
these tiny life forms,
and the unfounded fear
of things different
from what's familiar.
No one ever said as much,
but I could sense it.
I wanted the killing to stop.
Without killing them?
I don't know of such stories.
Look, you're just a child.
You've never come face
to face with mushi before.
Only an experienced
mushi master should say such.
[TANYU] He was right, of course.
Perhaps I was out of line.
I began to feel like
there was nothing I could do
to change things.
[TANYU] If I could only
use this leg...
[GINKO]
Excuse me? Miss?
Are you one of the Karibusas?
[TANYU]
Yes.
[GINKO] I thought so.
I was told that no one else
lives out in these parts.
Oh. That must be
the black birthmark
I've heard so much about.
You must be a mushi master.
I understand that you collect
stories about mushi.
And in exchange,
one gets to peruse
the Karibusa archives, right?
[TANYU]
Sorry, I'm not in the mood.
I've heard
more than enough tales
about killing mushi,
thank you.
Ah. Stories without killing.
Well then,
this is your lucky day.
I know a few of those.
Yes, but I doubt they'd
be of much use to--
[GINKO] Fine. If you
don't want me to tell you
about the mushi that eat moles.
--[TANYU] Moles?
--[GINKO] Hm?
Oh no, it's nothing.
Go on. Tell me.
I wanna hear
all about those mushi.
[door thuds, squeaks open]
[TANYU] Normally, any mushi
master that passes through
these doors must get
Tama's permission first.
To be honest, she probably
wouldn't approve of you,
so let's just say we keep this
between you and me.
[door squeaks, clinks]
[GINKO]
Incredible...
Listen. You have to be
very careful
how you handle
the documents here.
There's a dangerous species
of mushi laying dormant
in the character strings.
Yeah, I've heard about that.
The forbidden mushi.
Don't worry.
I'm pretty hard to kill.
This place. It's like a
goldmine for mushi masters.
Yes. That it is.
But, everything
in here is a record
of killing and death.
Let's change that.
I... I want to hear about
people and animals and mushi
living together in harmony.
I'll arrange things
with Tama so you can
come here from time to time.
All you'd have to do, if you
don't mind, is talk to me.
My pleasure.
[TAMA] Miss Tanyu? Oh, you're
already awake, I see.
[TANYU]
Yes.
Feel like company?
Ginko's here.
Then I shouldn't
keep him waiting.
Huh?
Is that...?
[GINKO]
Bookworm eggs...
[gasps]
They're here!
And here, too!
The character strings
are coming apart.
It's happening, isn't it?
[TAMA]
Ginko...
[GINKO]
Tama, bookworms are hatching!
They're eating the paper!
[gasps]
[GINKO]
They're breaking the seal!
[TAMA]
Oh no...
Miss Tanyu!
[TANYU]
What's the matter?
[TAMA] The mushi! They've
broken through the seal!
They're escaping!
And they're heading
straight for you!
[GINKO]
This isn't looking good.
[TANYU] Don't worry. There's no
way they can escape this room.
So you're still alive?
I'm surprised.
Yeah, so am I.
They sure don't move
like they've been
dormant for centuries.
[TANYU chuckles]
Not them.
I was talking about you, Ginko.
[GINKO] Like I said,
I'm hard to kill.
So, can you return these things
to the way they were?
Don't worry about it.
I've got a few tricks to
control mushi up my sleeve.
Tama?
[TAMA]
Here.
[gasps]
[GINKO] The character strings
have stopped moving.
Careful now. That's a
special sticky paste.
The room's walls and
ceiling are coated with it.
Volume one thousand,
eight hundred and fifty-three.
Chapter one.
Chapter two.
These writings.
You know them by heart?
Well, whether there
are bookworms or not,
all paper will eventually
disintegrate, Ginko.
From time to time,
I have to recopy the texts.
Memorization is important.
Of course, reconfiguring
the texts can be difficult
while the character strings
are trying to wiggle away.
But at the same time, I find it
entertaining as well.
These infernal mushi
have more or less
become Miss Tanyu's pets.
Heh.
Yes, well they can be
rather cute in their own way.
Do you think it's safe
to keep so many mushi here?
It's all right. Besides,
I'd have much more trouble
making copies without them.
That's quite a dangerous job
you've got there, Tanyu.
[TANYU] I know,
but it's my family's legacy.
After all, this is what
I was born and raised to do.
[GINKO] And so, as generations
before her had done,
there lived a woman drowning in
a sea of written characters.
The end.
[TANYU laughs]
I know that story.
Tell me another. Please?
[GINKO]
Hmmm...
You know, I think
we should call it a day.
Come on, not yet.
Less than half
of what you told me
will be useful
for sealing away mushi.
[GINKO] You had a hard day
yesterday. Don't overdo it.
Sure, all right.
Ginko, will you stay
with me until I finish?
Of course.
[GINKO] And so there lived a
woman who was ravaged by mushi.
But instead of hate,
she treated them with love
and sealed them away forever
without doing any harm.
The end.
Is Miss Tanyu done?
[GINKO]
Yes. She's resting.
[TANYU]
Ginko.
I'm okay.
I don't want to rest.
Instead,
I want to go outside.
Will you take me there, please?
[TANYU] This leg of mine.
Sometimes I wonder
if I'll ever get to use it.
I've waited so long.
Sure you will.
Your birthmark,
it's gradually
getting smaller, isn't it?
Slightly. A little at a time.
If I don't lose it
before I die,
my descendants will
inherit the birthmark
and carry on the curse.
As it's always been...
for generations now.
Who knows.
Maybe I'm not the one.
Maybe I'm not
destined to end it.
What if you are?
Your leg--what will
you do if it heals?
Well, I'd like to
travel with you some.
Maybe see all the different
mushi you told me about.
Who knows?
[chuckles]
Even if it did heal, I'd be an
old lady before I could use it.
[GINKO]
Hmm...
I was just kidding.
[GINKO]
Let's do it.
That is, of course,
assuming I'm not
dead by then. It's a deal.
Then try to stay alive.
[GINKO]
Easier said than done.
I could be swallowed whole
by a mushi tomorrow.
[TANYU] Oh, please.
I thought you were
supposed to be hard to kill.
[GINKO] True, but...
I'm just saying.
[TANYU]
I'm not worried.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "Cotton Changeling."